---
layout: post
title: Use your equity
date: 09-05-2024
categories: [mortgage]
tags: [equity, home, mortgage]
---

## Built up equity in your home? Take advantage.

## Put Your Home Equity To Good Use

Over time, as you pay down your mortgage and your home appreciates in value, equity is accumulated in your property. At the start, maybe you had a mortgage that put you at an 80% loan-to-value ratio, but after 5 years it drops to 60%. Now you have 20% more cash that you can pull out of your property to use for another purpose.


## How A Mortgage Equity Takeout Works

An equity takeout mortgage or home equity loan is exactly what it sounds like: a mortgage loan used to “take out” equity in your property. Maybe you want to use the money for a home renovation, a large debt payout, or a down payment on an investment property or vacation home. If you have enough home equity, securing the right mortgage is the easy part.


## Different Types

An equity home loan might involve a fixed amount of money borrowed at a fixed rate. Or, it can be a fixed sum with a variable rate. Depending on your situation, you may decide that an open line of credit is the best course of action. Shared equity mortgages vary in the ways in which they are organized, so first evaluate your needs and then work a mortgage broker who can help you determine the best solution.


## THERATEFINDER Approach

We’re big believers in understanding all the details that make up our clients’ financial situations. If you have a great deal of equity in your home and you require money for any reason, borrowing against your property is often the choice that makes the most financial sense because interest rates are low.

By acquiring a big-picture view, our team is in the perfect position to guide you in the right direction, negotiate with lenders on your behalf and secure the best mortgage equity loan for you.